“On the ninth of January, four days ago now,” Lanyon’s letter began, “I received by the evening delivery an envelope from Henry Jekyll. I was surprised by this, for we had dined together just the night before and I could think of nothing that had not been said then. 

“The contents of the letter increased my wonder, for in it he asked me to cancel any arrangements and go at once to his house. 

“Poole had instructions to take me to Jekyll’s study, where I should remove a certain drawer with all its contents, breaking the lock if necessary. I was then to take the drawer back to Cavendish Square and await the arrival, at midnight, of a young man, in to whose hands I was to place the drawer. He said that his life, his honor, his reason depended on it.

“Reading this, I decided that Jekyll must be insane, but for the sake of our old friendship I did as he requested. I went to his house, collected the drawer with Poole’s help, and returned home. 

“There, examining the drawer’s contents, I found a number of small packages containing white powders of some sort, and a vial half-full of a blood-red liquid. There was also a book full of dates and brief notes, the word “double” appearing several times. There was also the record of a series of experiments.

“At the stroke of midnight, the knocker sounded very gently on the door.  I went myself to answer the summons, having sent the servants to bed, and found a small figure crouching against the pillars of the porch.

“‘Have you come from Dr. Jekyll,’ I asked.

“He said that he had, and when I bid him enter he cast a backward glance into the darkness. There was a policeman not far off and at sight of him, my visitor made great haste to come in. I escorted him to the bright light of my consulting room, where I had my first chance to see him clearly. 

“He was small, as I have said, and his clothes, which were far too big for him, hung loosely about him. I was struck with the shocking expression of his face. There was something abnormal about it, something surprising and revolting. He seemed agitated, afire with a deadly serious experiment.

“‘Have you got it’ he cried. So lively was his impatience, he laid his hand upon my arm. I stood back, conscious of any pang along my blood.

“‘There it is, sir,’ I replied, pointing to it on the floor.

He sprang to it eagerly, and then paused, and laid his hand upon his heart. I could hear his teeth grate, and his face was so ghastly I grew alarmed. ‘I’ll need a measuring glass,’ he said over his shoulder.

“I gave him the glass, and he measured out a small amount of the red liquid and added one of the powders. The resultant mixture, at first of a reddish hue, began to brighten in color and effervesce audibly. Then the bubbling ceased and the compound changed briefly to a dark purple before fading to a watery green. 

“My visitor, who had been watching these changes keenly, set down the glass and turned his gaze on me.

“‘If you wish it,’ he said, ‘I’ll leave you now and you will be none the wiser about any of this. But if your curiosity has the better of you, you might witness something that will open to you a new province of knowledge and new avenues to fame and power. Think carefully, for you may not like what you see.”

“‘Sir,’ said I, affecting a coolness that I did not feel, ‘I have gone too far tonight in unexplained services to withdraw before I see the end.’

“‘Well said,’ he answered. ‘But Lanyon, I must bind you to secrecy. And now you who has been bound to the most narrow views - behold.’

“He put the glass to his lips and drank at one gulp. A cry followed. He reeled, staggered, clutched at the table, and held on, staring with injected eyes, gasping with open mouth. And as I looked, there came, I thought, a change - he seemed to swell, his face became suddenly black and the features seemed to melt and alter. 

“The next moment, I sprang to my feet and flew back against the wall, my arm raised to shield me, my mind in terror.

“‘Oh God!’ I screamed, and again, ‘Oh God!’ For there, before my eyes - pale and shaken, and half-fainting, and groping before him with his hands, like a man restored from death - there stood Henry Jekyll.

“What Jekyll told me in the next hour I cannot bring myself to set on paper. I saw what I saw, heard what I heard, and my soul sickened at it. And yet, now that the sight has faded from my eyes, I ask myself if I believe it, and I cannot answer. 

“My life is shaken to its roots. Sleep has left me and the deadliest terror sits by me at all hours of the day and night. My days are surely numbered, for no man can live long after witnessing such things. I cannot even in memory dwell on it without a start of horror.

“I will say but one thing, Utterson, and that will be more than enough. The creature who crept into my house that night was, on Jekyll’s own confession, known by the name of Hyde and hunted in every corner of the land as the murderer of Sir Danvers Carew.”
